
# Code Style

Readability of the source code was a chief concern for this project. This seemed imminently sensible for an application designed for programming education, allowing the excelling student user to "peek behind the curtain" at the fabric of the learning tool itself. Many of CoffeeScript's features enforced a level of readability, and a self-defined code standard for the project served to provide consistency amongst the variable features of the language.

The highest-level code standard decision was to style the code itself and the source files in a way that closest resembles Python, due to prior familiarity and the prevalence of Python elsewhere in programming education. This naturally led to clarity on one of CoffeeScript's idiosyncracies: using brackets in function calls. While the use of whitespace instead of brackets makes the code debatably more readable, it can cause scope confusion for nested function calls (which became important for the functional style discussed below). Additionally used were "type-hint" comments, to hint at the type of an object in a variable, or especially to clarify the type of objects to be contained in arrays or look-up tables (confusingly called "objects" in JavaScript).

A differing factor between Python and JavaScript code standards is the use of PascalCase, camelCase, and snake\_case. Python's *PEP8* style document CITATION mandates the use of PascalCase for class names and snake\_case for attributes, functions, and variables. The seminal *Code Conventions for the JavaScript Programming Language* CITATION doesn't provide a specific guideline for case, but inline examples use camelCase for variable and function names; this is consistent with the W3Schools code style and with most of the browser-standard APIs CITATION. In this project, Python name styles were used, which helped distinguish the project-specific names from most of the API names.

The structure of a source file was also laid out according to Python convention, with any global variables or data references declared first, then all class definitions, followed by global or utility function definitions, and concluded with a `main()` function. The `main()` function is called into by an initiator; in this project, it is the jQuery `$(document).ready()`.